Add Workspace ONE Access docs (#1093)
vmware-tanzu/pinniped: site/content/docs/howto/configure-supervisor-with-workspace_one_access.md

---
title: Configure the Pinniped Supervisor to use Workspace ONE Access as an OIDC provider
description: Set up the Pinniped Supervisor to use Workspace ONE Access login.
cascade:
  layout: docs
menu:
  docs:
    name: Configure Supervisor With Workspace ONE Access
    weight: 80
    parent: howtos
---
The Supervisor is an [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://openid.net/connect/) issuer that supports connecting a single
"upstream" identity provider to many "downstream" cluster clients.

This guide shows you how to configure the Supervisor so that users can authenticate to their Kubernetes

> cluster using their Workspace ONE Access credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster using their [Workspace ONE Access](https://www.vmware.com/products/workspace-one/access.html) credentials.
```

## Prerequisites

This how-to guide assumes that you have already [installed the Pinniped Supervisor]({{< ref "install-supervisor" >}}) with working ingress,
and that you have [configured a FederationDomain to issue tokens for your downstream clusters]({{< ref "configure-supervisor" >}}).

## Create an Workspace ONE Access Application

> Follow the instructions for [adding an OIDC app](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Workspace-ONE-Access/services/ws1-access-resources/GUID-406D8154-3C32-4AD1-A746-619BDF2CCB70.html)
> with some further details explained [here](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Workspace-ONE-Access/services/ws1-access-resources/GUID-8B97BC55-7A6C-4F52-9F68-EC486A4241B7.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the Workspace ONE documentation for [adding an OIDC app](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Workspace-ONE-Access/services/ws1-access-resources/GUID-8B97BC55-7A6C-4F52-9F68-EC486A4241B7.html), including the documentation for [the detailed steps required](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-Workspace-ONE-Access/services/ws1-access-resources/GUID-406D8154-3C32-4AD1-A746-619BDF2CCB70.html).
```

Suggestion to avoid having a link that says "here".

      1. Uncheck all other scopes

## Configure the Supervisor

Create an [OIDCIdentityProvider](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/pinniped/blob/main/generated/{{< latestcodegenversion >}}/README.adoc#oidcidentityprovider) in the same namespace as the Supervisor.

For example, this OIDCIdentityProvider and corresponding Secret use Workspace ONE Access's `email` claim as the Kubernetes username:

```yaml
apiVersion: idp.supervisor.pinniped.dev/v1alpha1
kind: OIDCIdentityProvider
metadata:
  namespace: pinniped-supervisor
  name: ws1
spec:

  # Specify the issuer URL (no trailing slash). Change this to be the
  # actual issuer of your Workspace ONE Access environment.  Note that
  # the Workspace ONE Access issuer ends with the string "/SAAS/auth."
  issuer: https://ws1.my-company.com/SAAS/auth

  # Specify how to form authorization requests to Workspace ONE Access.
  authorizationConfig:

    # Request any scopes other than "openid" for claims besides
    # the default claims in your token. The "openid" scope is always
    # included.
    #
    # See the example claims below to learn how to customize the claims returned.

>     additionalScopes: [group, email]

Reviewer: Just confirming, users don't need to do anything to ask for refresh tokens, e.g. request `offline_access`?

Author: Yeah, here is an excerpt from the session data:

```json
{
  "providerUID": "6f326005-ffc3-4568-b316-8442169eb637",
  "providerName": "ws1",
  "providerType": "oidc",
  "warnings": null,
  "oidc": {
    "upstreamRefreshToken": "NmFhNTdkMTktMmI...Y0ODE0Nzg3Nw",
    "upstreamAccessToken": "",
    "upstreamSubject": "td.mon...5C",
    "upstreamIssuer": "https://td-mo...w.com/SAAS/auth"
  }
}
```

  # Specify how Workspace ONE Access claims are mapped to Kubernetes identities.
  claims:

    # Specify the name of the claim in your Workspace ONE Access token that will
    # be mapped to the "username" claim in the tokens minted by the Supervisor.
    #

>     # The sub claim is recommended for environments that want
>     # to use a more stable identifier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # User's emails can change. Use the sub claim if 
    # your environment requires a stable identifier.
```
Trying to make it more clear why the email is not suitable and what it means to be stable.
